Index:

    Predictive model
    descriptive model
    training a model
    overfitting
    bias-variance
    performance model

Cost function:
    Helps to measure the extent to which the model is going wrong in estimating the relationship between X and Y

Loss function:
    same as the cost function only difference is that it is usually a function defined on a data point while the cost function is for the entire training data set.

Types of ml for resolving different types of problems

Supervised learning:
    Regression
    Classification

Unsupervised learning:
    Clustering
    Dimensionality reduction

Selection:

    ML is of 2 types Supervised (focused on solving predictive problems) and unsupervised (Used to describe a data set or gain insight from a data set.)

    Supervised:

        Attempts to establish a relation between the target feature i.e. the feature being predicted and the predictor features.

        The models that are used for the prediction of target features of categorical value are known as Classification models.
        E.g. KNN, Naïve Bayes, Decision tree

        Predictive models may also be used to predict numerical values of target features based on the target predictive features of a data instance. These are known as Regression models.
        E.g. Linear regression, Logistic regression

        Support Vector Machines and Neural Network models are used for both Classification and Regression.

    Unsupervised:

        Used to describe a data set or gain insight from a data set.
        No target feature or single feature of interest in the case of unsupervised learning.
        Based on the value of all features Interesting patterns or insights are derived from the data set.
        
        Descriptive models which group similar data instances are known as clustering models.
        E.g. K-means

Training a mode:

    Methods:
        Holdout model
        Cross-validation model
        Leave-one-out 
        K-fold 
        
    Holdout Method:

        In the case of supervised learning a model is trained using the labelled input data.
        In general, 70%-80% of the input data is used for model training.
        The remeaning is used as test data for validation of the performance of the model. Different proportion is also acceptable.

        To make sure the data are similar, the division is done randomly.
        Random numbers are used to assign data items into partitions.

        This method of partitioning the input data into two parts - training and test data which is by holding back a part of input data for validating the trained model is known as the holdout model.
        Once the model is trained using the training data, the labels of the test data are predicted using the model's target function.
        The performance of the model is in general measured by the accuracy of the prediction of the label value.

        Many times the input data is partitioned into three portions - training, testing and validation.

        Problem: 
        
            The division of data into different classes may not be proportionate.
            This can be addressed to some extent by applying stratified random sampling instead of sampling.

    K-fold model: