Overview:

    Learning: Process of gaining information through Observations.
    Types:

        Learning directly under expert guidance:
            - Parents teach infants
            - Professional mentors
        
            Learning guided by knowledge gained from experts:
            - Learning happens with the knowledge which has been imparted by a teacher or mentor at some point in time in some other form or context

        Self-Learning:
            - Learning when we are left to learn on our own

Preface:
    Machine Learning: Teaching the Machine to think like a human from Past data to predict the future.
    
    or
    
    A computer program is said to learn from experience E concerning some class of tasks T and performance measure P, if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E.

Note:
    - A machine can be considered to learn if it is able to gather experiences by doing a certain task and improve its performance in doing similar tasks in the future.

    - Here, The past experience is past data which is input to the machine learning program or machine from other sources.

How?

    Data -> Abstraction -> Generalization

    Data: Past data or information is utilized as a basis for future decision-making.

    Abstraction: the input data is represented in a broader way through the underlying algorithm.

    Generalization: The abstracted representation is generalized to form a framework for making decisions.


Abstraction:

    Helps in deriving a conceptual map based on the input data known as the machine learning paradigm (Summarized knowledge representation of the raw data)

    Data can be arranged in the form of:

        * Computational blocks like if/else rules
        * Mathematical equations
        * Specific data structures like trees and graphs
        * Logical grouping of similar observations

    Choice can be based on,

        * The type of problem to be solved
        * Nature of input Data
        * Domain of the problem

    The next task is to fit the model based on the input data (known as training).

Generalization:

    A key part of ML is to tune up the abstracted knowledge to a form which can be used to take future decisions. It can be achieved by Generalization.

    Quite difficult to achieve because the model is trained based on all finite sets of data which may possess a limited set of characteristics.

When we apply the model to take decisions on test data, we encounter two problems:

    1. The trained model is aligned with the training data too much.
    2. The test data possess certain characteristics unknown to train data.

Types of Machine Learning:

    1) Supervised Learning (Predictive Learning)
    2) Unsupervised Learning (Descriptive Learning)
    3) Reinforcement Learning

    Supervised Learning:

        A machine predicts the class of unknown objects based on prior class-related information of similar objects.

        Data: (x, y) -> x: input data, y: output label
        Goal: Learn the function to map, x to y.

    Unsupervised Learning:

        A machine finds patterns in unknown objects by grouping similar objects together.

        Data: x
        Goal: Learn the hidden pattern of data.